Salesforce 10 User Guide (#576)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/salesforce/salesforce-connector-100-upgrade-migrate.adoc

[%header,cols="50a,50a"]
|===
|From Version | To Version
|9.8.x |10.0.0
|===

== Changes in This Release

This release contains the following changes:

* Removed deprecated connection types
* Made the following changes to some operations:
 ** Merged multiple operations into one
 ** Renamed some operations and parameters
 ** Changed some operation return types
* Redesigned the Replay ID functionality
* Changed the Mule TLS Context usage
* Improved the error types
* Removed the dependency on the Dozer library

=== Changes in Connection Types

This release contains the following changes to connection types:

* Removed the following connection types:
** Username Password
** Basic Username Password
* Added connection pool functionality to improve multi-threading support. With this functionality, each request sent to the API has its own headers and read timeout, which prevents the operation headers from being overridden with the wrong values when operations are executed simultaneously.
* Added a new *Security* tab for configuring TLS.
* Reordered the parameters in a more intuitive way.
* Moved the Read timeout parameter from the provider configuration to the connector configuration.

> * Removed the following parameters from the connector configuration: (*George, can we order these alphabetically, or are they ordered this way for a reason?*)

Reviewer: Yes, these ones can be ordered alphabetically. I've put them in this order because this is their order in Salesforce configuration.

> = Salesforce - Upgrade and Migrate - Mule 4

Reviewer 2: NEW EDIT BEGINS HERE

Salesforce Connector 10 Upgrade and Migrate: https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-connectors/pull/621
This is a topic I wrote recently.  Hopefully, this one is also in good shape. I do get confused about when to use back ticks and when not to, but I think this is something that you and Mysti are working on.

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../../assets/images/

Upgrade Anypoint Connector for Salesforce (Salesforce Connector) to version 10.0.0.

== Supported Upgrade Paths

[%header,cols="50a,50a"]
|===
|From Version | To Version
|9.8.x |10.0.0
|===

== Changes in This Release

This release contains the following changes:

* Removed deprecated connection types
* Made the following changes to some operations:
 ** Merged multiple operations into one
 ** Renamed some operations and parameters
 ** Changed some operation return types
* Redesigned the Replay ID functionality
* Changed the Mule TLS Context usage
* Improved the error types
* Removed the dependency on the Dozer library

> * Removed the keep alive feature as a configurable option. The connector now automatically performs one API call every

Reviewer 2: Keep list items to one frag or sent:

* Removed the keep alive feature as a configurable option. 
The connector now automatically performs one API call every....

Reviewer 2: [[Here is one change in a closed file vs. open: have to copy and paste text; no autoreplicate function]]

> * Keep alive session feature is no longer a configurable option. The connector will automatically perform one API call every

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Keep alive session feature is no longer a configurable option. The connector now automatically performs one API call every 14 minutes (Salesforce minimum TTL is 15 minutes), so the session no longer expires. 
```

14 minutes (Salesforce minimum TTL is 15 minutes), so the session no longer expires.

=== Changes in Connection Types

This release contains the following changes to connection types:

* Removed the following connection types:
** Username Password
** Basic Username Password

> * Added connection pool functionality to improve multi-threading support. With this functionality, each request sent to the API has its own headers and read timeout, which prevents the operation headers from being overridden with the wrong values when operations are executed simultaneously.

Reviewer 2: ditto:

* Added connection pool functionality to improve multi-threading support. 
With this functionality, each request sent ....

* Added a new *Security* tab for configuring TLS.

> * Reordered the parameters in a more intuitive way.

Reviewer 2: * Reordered the parameters to be more intuitive.

| Operation is now called Subscribe topic listener.

| Update
a| Return type is now Bulk Operation Result, which can be integrated with the Batch scope.

| Upsert
a| `Type` parameter is now called `Object Type`.

|===

== Changes in Operations Metadata

There are no changes related to keys, input metadata, or output metadata.

== Removed Operations

The following operations were removed from Salesforce Connector:

//[cols="15%,35%,15%]
|===
|Removed Operation |Functionality Covered By

| Bulk info | Batch info operation
| Bulk info list | Batch info list operation
| Bulk result | Batch result operation
| Bulk result stream| Batch result stream operation
|Create bulk | Create job operation with an `insert` parameter and a Create Batch operation
| Create bulk for query | Create batch for query operation| Create single | Create operation
| Create multiple | Create operation
| Create multiple batch | Create batch operation
| Create multiple batch stream | Create batch stream operation
| Create multiple bulk | Create Job operation with a `create`
 parameter and a Create batch operation
 | Delete multiple | Delete operation
| Get deleted range | Get deleted objects operation

> | Get updated | Get updated objects operations

Reviewer 2: operations, plural?

| Get updated objects | Get updated objects operation and Retrieve operation
| Hard delete bulk | Create Job operation with a `hardDelete` parameter and a Create batch operation
| Hard delete multiple | Create Job with a `hardDelete` parameter and a Create batch operation
| Query multiple result stream | Query result stream operation
| Query single | Query operation
| Non paginated query | Query operation
| Update bulk | Create job operation with an `update` parameter and a Create Batch operation
| Update multiple | Update operation
| Update multiple bulk | Create Job operation with an `update` parameter and a Create batch operation

> | Update single	| Update operation| Delete multiple | Delete

Reviewer 2: Is this spacing okay?

| Upsert bulk | Create Job operation with an `upsert` parameter and a Create Batch operation
| Upsert multiple | Upsert operation
| Upsert multiple bulk | Create Job operation with an `upsert` parameter and a Create batch operation
|===

== Upgrade Prerequisites

Before you perform the upgrade, you must:

. Create a backup of your files, data, and configuration in case you need to restore to the previous version.
. Install Salesforce Connector v10.0 to replace the Salesforce operations that were previously included in Salesforce Connector v9.8.x.

== Upgrade Steps

Follow these steps to perform the upgrade from Salesforce Connector v9.8.x to Salesforce Connector v10.0:

. In Anypoint Studio, create a Mule project.
. In the Mule Palette view, click *Search in Exchange*.
. In the *Add Dependencies to Project* window, enter `Salesforce 10` in the search field.
. In the *Available modules* section, select *Salesforce Connector 10.0.0* and click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

> . Verify that the `salesforce-connector` dependency version is `10.0.0` in the `pom.xml`.

Reviewer 2: the `pom.xml` > `pom.xml`
